Hello everyone and welcome to the sequential search lecture.
So for sequential search we're going discuss the theory of sequential search later on we'll see an implementation
of sequential search and we'll also do an analysis for Big O on both unordered lists and the ordered
lists.
OK.
So sequential search is just the basic searching technique you sequentially go through the data structure
comparing elements as you go along.
So for example here at the bottom we have an unordered list.
Now we're searching for the element 50.
So we just keep going along the list until we either go throughout the whole list or we find the elements
in this case 50 was not present but we still have to check every element in the array.
Here's a good question though what if the array was ordered.
That means if the array was actually in a sorted order so that the list is ordered we know we only have
to search until we reach an element which is a match or you reach an element which is greater than our
search target.
So for example searching for 50 we can stop here since we know it's a sorted list.
Once you reach 50 for an element which is greater than our search target.
So let's do a quick analysis for an ordered list.
In the case where the item is present our best case for Big O is one that means we hit it on the very
first try.
Worst case is that it's the very last element of the list.
And so we have to go through.
And elements of that list to find it.
So that means the average case is just going to be an over 2.
What about if the item is not present.
That means in both the best case and the worst case you'd have to search through every single item in
the array or that list.
So that means your average case is going to be end.
However on an ordered list if the item is present or not present then you're going to have one an end
as your best case and worst case.
So just to pass over those colonies best case worst case average case.
So your best case if the item is present and not present on an ordered list is one your worst case is
just going to be end.
And then your average case is over 2.
So we're going to do some basic implementations of a sequential search and we'll do both ordered and
unordered implementations.
So we have an implementation for accepting an ordered array and an implementation for accepting an order
to raise and we'll see how those differ.
OK.
So hopefully that was a pretty basic concept just a sequential search you go through the array keep
going through that list looking for the elements.
And then if you find it you find it if you don't find it however you have to go through every single
element in that array.
If you know it's an ordered list though only have to keep going until you find either the element itself
that you're searching for or an element that's bigger than the element you're searching for.
OK so let's go ahead and implement this in the next lecture.
Thanks and I'll see you there